variable name	definition
ID "Unique numeric ID linked to a publication (article or data set). If the data set was split because different taxa group are provided, a different number is assigned. No missing value."
dataset_id	"Unique ID linked to a publication (article or data set). If the data set was split because different taxa group are provided, a letter is added at the end. No missing value."
year	"Year of sampling. If sampling was pooled over several years, the last sampling year is used here. No missing value."
regional	"Region name, countains at least two localities. Can be a national park, a state or a forest name for example but smaller scales are also included where the region is an experimental sites. A data set can have several regions. No missing value. UTF-8 encoding."
local	"Name or code of the sampled locality or experimental sample as given by the original data provider. For example, it can correspond to the name of an island, a lake or forest. No missing value. UTF-8 encoding."
latitude	"Latitude North in decimal degree, WGS84. Site specific coordinates were included when available."
longitude	"Longitude East in decimal degree, WGS84. Site specific coordinates were included when available."
study_type	"one of ""resurvey"" or ""ecological sampling"". RESURVEY: typically two samplings separated by a long, 20+ years, stretch of time and a great deal of effort is put in matching very precisely historical plots or transects. ECOLOGICAL SAMPLING: these studies generally involve more samplings than resurveys: 10 samplings, 1 every few years. No missing value."
data_pooled_by_authors	TRUE if the data provided by the authors was already pooled covering several years: several samples made over several years pooled together. No missing value.
data_pooled_by_authors_comment	"If there was pooling by the original authors, countains free text describing how the authors pooled their data."
sampling_years	"If there was pooling by the original authors, countains the years sampled for each period. ""1997, 1999"" means 1997 and 1999, ""1997-1999"" means 1997, 1998 and 1999."
alpha_grain_m2	"Area of the local unit or area of the sampling gear (alpha_grain_type = sample). NA values indicate that information could not be collected."
alpha_grain_type	"Category of alpha_grain, one of: ""island"", ""plot"", ""administrative"", ""watershed"", ""sample"", ""lake_pond"", ""archipelago"", ""trap"", ""transect"", ""ecosystem"", ""functional"", ""box"" or ""quadrat"". No missing value."
alpha_grain_comment	"Description of the alpha_grain measure."
realm	"Realm in which the sampling was done, one of: Freshwater or Terrestrial. No missing value."
taxon	"Taxon group of the data set, one of: ""Plants"", ""Invertebrates"", ""Birds"", ""Herpetofauna"", ""Marine Plants"" or ""Fish"". No missing value."
comment	"A description of the data set origin, goal and sampling method. No missing value. UTF-8 encoding."
comment_standardisation	"A short description of the modifications we made to the data set to ensure standard effort: excluded sites or years, excluded taxa, etc."
doi   "One or several DOIs separated by ""|""" that have to be cited for each data set."
is_coordinate_local_scale	Logical. TRUE if coordinates are given at the scale of the site/locality. FALSE if the coordinates are at the regional scale or missing. No missing value.
